{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1043{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f2\fmodern\fcharset0\fprq1{\*\panose 02070309020205020404}Courier New;}{\f15\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0503020102020204}Franklin Gothic Book;}{\f16\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0903020102020204}Franklin Gothic Heavy;}
{\f17\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0603020102020204}Franklin Gothic Medium;}{\f91\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f92\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f94\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}
{\f95\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f96\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f97\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f98\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f100\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f101\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f102\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f103\fmodern\fcharset238\fprq1 Courier New CE;}{\f104\fmodern\fcharset204\fprq1 Courier New Cyr;}{\f106\fmodern\fcharset161\fprq1 Courier New Greek;}
{\f107\fmodern\fcharset162\fprq1 Courier New Tur;}{\f108\fmodern\fcharset186\fprq1 Courier New Baltic;}{\f181\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Book CE;}{\f182\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Book Cyr;}
{\f184\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Book Greek;}{\f185\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Book Tur;}{\f186\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Book Baltic;}{\f187\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Heavy CE;}
{\f188\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Heavy Cyr;}{\f190\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Heavy Greek;}{\f191\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Heavy Tur;}{\f192\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Heavy Baltic;}
{\f193\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Medium CE;}{\f194\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Medium Cyr;}{\f196\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Medium Greek;}{\f197\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Medium Tur;}
{\f198\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Franklin Gothic Medium Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \f15\lang1043\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}
{\s1\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \f16\fs28\lang1043\kerning28\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{\s2\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \f17\fs28\lang1043\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{\s3\sb240\sa60\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright 
\f17\lang1043\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\lang1043\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Factuur;}{\s16\widctlpar\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\adjustright \f15\fs20\lang1043\cgrid 
\sbasedon0 \snext16 header;}{\s17\widctlpar\tqc\tx4536\tqr\tx9072\adjustright \f15\fs20\lang1043\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 footer;}{\s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang1043\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext18 Plain Text;}}{\info
{\title Ariadne installation instructions - Windows 2000}{\author Auke van Slooten}{\operator Auke van Slooten}{\creatim\yr2001\mo8\dy6\hr1\min18}{\revtim\yr2001\mo8\dy6\hr2\min43}{\version3}{\edmins70}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords1554}{\nofchars8859}
{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws10879}{\vern89}}\margl1417\margr1417\margt1417\margb1417 \deftab708\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz425\formshade\viewkind4\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1
\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang
{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f15\lang1043\cgrid {\b\f1\fs32\cgrid0 Ariadne installation instructions - Windows 2000/NT
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }\pard \li708\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\cgrid0 *Warning*}{\f1\cgrid0 
 the PHP4 sapi modules are not nearly as stable under windows as the Apache module for unix. We haven't had much problems with the Apache sapi version, but we haven't been able to run the isapi version very reliably. Your mileage may vary.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 Using IIS
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\i\f1\cgrid0 These are the installation instructions when you want to run PHP with IIS. If you want to use Apache for windows, goto the part titled 'Using Apache'.
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 
\par 1. Install PHP 4
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Download the PHP 4 windows binaries from }{\b\f1\cgrid0 http://www.php.net/downloads.php}{\f1\cgrid0  or one of its mirrors. 
\par 
\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\adjustright \f2\fs20\lang1043\cgrid {\f1\fs24\cgrid0 Unzip PHP and install it somewhere (e.g.: }{\b\f1\fs24\cgrid0 C:\\PHP\\}{\f1\fs24\cgrid0 ).  Now download our patched version of the isapi dll from }{\fs24\cgrid0 
ftp://ftp.muze.nl/}{\fs24 pub/ariadne/win/iis/php-4.0.6/php4isapi.dll}{\f1\fs24  and copy it over the original. (which you can find at }{\b\f1\fs24 C:\\PHP\\sapi\\php4isapi.dll}{\f1\fs24 )
\par }\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright \f15\lang1043\cgrid {\f1\cgrid0 
\par This patch fixes a problem with IIS and PHP which prevents PHP from finding the correct script to execute if you add path info in the url. Ariadne will not run without this. 
\par 
\par Read the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 install.txt}{\f1\cgrid0  file for further instructions. Don't forget to install the isapi version of PHP.}{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 2. Configure IIS
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Start the 'Internet Services Manager', you can find it from the Start menu -> Programs -> Administrative Tools -> Internet Services Manager.
\par 
\par Now c
reate a new website for Ariadne by rightclicking on the folder with the name of your system and selecting new -> website. Alternatively you can install it in an existing website if you like. Do make sure that the Web Site Access Permissions are set to 're
ad' and 'execute'.
\par 
\par Tip: If you don't use IIS's 'default' website, we advise you to disable it. This will help to make your system more secure.
\par 
\par Make sure that PHP is enabled in the Ariadne website. You can read instructions for this in the PHP installation instructions (install.txt).
\par 
\par }{\i\f1\cgrid0 You can now continue the installation with the part title 'Common Installation' further in this document.
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 Using Apache
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\i\f1\cgrid0 These are the installation instructions when you want to run PHP with Apache for windows. If you want to 
use IIS instead, finish the previous part titled 'Using IIS' first, then continue the installation with the part titled 'Common Installation'.
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 1. Stop IIS
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par }{\i\f1\cgrid0 If you are not already running Internet Information Services (IIS) you can skip this step.}{\f1\cgrid0 
\par If you want to run Ariadne on the default webserver port (80), you need to stop IIS permanently. Ariadne requires Apache and Apache cannot run on the same port as IIS. To stop the webservice of IIS, go to }{\b\f1\cgrid0 
start->programs->aministrative tools->services}{\f1\cgrid0  and right-click on '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 World Wide Web publishing services}{\f1\cgrid0 '. Select '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 Properties}{\f1\cgrid0 ' and click on the '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 Stop}{\f1\cgrid0 
' button if it is enabled. Then select '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 disabled}{\f1\cgrid0 ' in the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 startup-type}{\f1\cgrid0  selection box.
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 2. Install Apache
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Apache can be downloaded from }{\b\f1\cgrid0 http://httpd.apache.org/dist/httpd/binaries/win32/}{\f1\cgrid0  or one of its mirrors. 
\par 
\par The installation wizard will guide you through the initial installation of Apache. Remember the installation path you selected for Apache. 
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 3. Install PHP 4
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Download the PHP 4 windows binaries from }{\b\f1\cgrid0 http://www.php.net/downloads.php}{\f1\cgrid0  or one of its mirrors.
\par 
\par Unzip PHP and install it somewhere (e.g.: }{\b\f1\cgrid0 C:\\PHP\\}{\f1\cgrid0 ). Read the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 install.txt}{\f1\cgrid0  file for further instructions. Remember: you need to install PHP as a module in Apache, don't install the CGI version.

\par 
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 5. Configure Apache
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Apache itself is not configured yet. Browse to the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 conf}{\f1\cgrid0  directory under the Apache installation directory and open the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 httpd.conf}{\f1\cgrid0  file for editting (it is text file). Search for the text '}{
\b\f1\cgrid0 LoadModule}{\f1\cgrid0 '. Between the list of modules there's probably a line like this:
\par 
\par \tab }{\f2\cgrid0 #LoadModule php4_module modules/apachemodulephp.dll }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par 
\par Change this line to this:
\par 
\par \tab }{\f2\cgrid0 LoadModule php4_module modules/php4apache.dll
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Note: the name of the module has also changed.
\par 
\par Then search for the text '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 AddType}{\f1\cgrid0 '. Between the list of application type's, you can find the line:
\par 
\par \tab }{\f2\cgrid0 #AddType application/x-httpd-php .php}{\f1\cgrid0 
\par 
\par Change this line to this:
\par 
\par \tab }{\f2\cgrid0 AddType application/x-httpd-php .php}{\f1\cgrid0 
\par 
\par Finally search for this line:
\par 
\par \tab }{\f2\cgrid0 DirectoryIndex index.html index.shtml 
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par And add }{\b\f1\cgrid0 index.php}{\f1\cgrid0  at the end of the line.
\par 
\par The file httpd.conf contains numerous other configuration settings, for more information on configuring Apache for Windows goto }{\b\f1\cgrid0 http://www.apache.org/docs/windows.html#use}{\f1\cgrid0 .
\par }{\b\f1\cgrid0  
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 Now you need to test whether Apache will run with PHP installed. First youwill need to restart the Apache service. You can do this from the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 Start menu -> Programs -> Apache -> Restart Apache}{\f1\cgrid0 .
\par 
\par To check if everything is installed correctly, create a file with the name '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 info.php}{\f1\cgrid0 ' in the Apache document root (e.g.: }{\b\f1\cgrid0 C:\\Program Files\\Apache Group\\Apache\\htdocs\\}{\f1\cgrid0 
) with the following contents:
\par 
\par }{\f2\cgrid0 <?php
\par   phpinfo();
\par ?>
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Start a web browser and go to }{\b\f1\cgrid0 http://localhost/info.php}{\f1\cgrid0 . If everything installed ok, you should see a formatted page displaying some information about PHP and Apache.
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 
\par Common installation steps:
\par 
\par 1. Configure PHP 4}{\f1\cgrid0 
\par 
\par PHP needs to be configured a bit before it can run Ariadne without problems. Start a text editor and create a new file with the following line:
\par 
\par }{\f2\cgrid0 \tab magic_quotes_gpc\tab =\tab Off
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Save this file as }{\b\f1\cgrid0 \\winnt\\php.ini}{\f1\cgrid0 . Make sure it doesn't get saved as php.ini.txt
\par (You can also edit your existing php.ini file, just make sure that magic quotes are off).
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 
\par 2. Install MySQL}{\f1\cgrid0 
\par 
\par Start by unzipping the file }{\b\f1\cgrid0 mysql-3.23.40- win.zip}{\f1\cgrid0 . If you use WinZip you can immediately press }{\b\f1\cgrid0 Install}{\f1\cgrid0 , otherwise you can unzip the files to a temporary directory and start }{\b\f1\cgrid0 setup.exe}
{\f1\cgrid0 .
\par 
\par The installation wizard will guide you through the initial installation of MySQL. 
\par 
\par After the installation wizard finishes, start the program }{\b\f1\cgrid0 winmysqladmin.exe}{\f1\cgrid0  from the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 bin}{\f1\cgrid0  directory under
 the Mysql installation directory. This program will first ask you to enter a username and password. You can use these to connect to the MySQL database from now on. The program has placed itself in the system tray, so click on the 'traffic light' icon the
re and select '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 show me}{\f1\cgrid0 '. Now press the '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 my.ini Setup}{\f1\cgrid0 ' tab. Enter the correct values for the base directory and select '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 mysqld-nt}{\f1\cgrid0 
'. Check the entries in the my.ini file and then press '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 Save Modification}{\f1\cgrid0 '.
\par 
\par Finally you need to create two databases for Ariadne to use later. Click on the tab }{\b\f1\cgrid0 databases}{\f1\cgrid0 . Right click on the computer name in the Databases overview and select }{\b\f1\cgrid0 create database}{\f1\cgrid0 
. Now enter the name of your ariadne database, e.g. }{\b\f1\cgrid0 ariadne}{\f1\cgrid0 , and click on }{\b\f1\cgrid0 create the database}{\f1\cgrid0 . The input dialog will remain and 
you can enter the second database, used for storing session information, you might call that }{\b\f1\cgrid0 ariadne_sessions}{\f1\cgrid0 .
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 3. Install Ariadne
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Start by unzipping the file }{\b\f1\cgrid0 ariadne.2.0b10.zip}{\f1\cgrid0  to a suitable directory ( e.g. }{\b\f1\cgrid0 C:/Program Files/Ariadne.2.0b10/}{\f1\cgrid0  ) . This dire
ctory should not be in your webservers document root! (That would allow hackers to read the programs source code via the web, which is a bad thing.)
\par 
\par Now you can either move the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 www}{\f1\cgrid0  directory from the ariadne installation directory to a new directory in the document root of the webserver, e.g. }{\b\f1\cgrid0 /ariadne/}{\f1\cgrid0 , or 
you can direct the webserver to an alternative directory. 
\par 
\par If you are using Apache, you can add an }{\b\f1\cgrid0 alias}{\f1\cgrid0  directive to the Apache's }{\b\f1\cgrid0 httpd.conf}{\f1\cgrid0 . e.g.:
\par 
\par }{\f2\cgrid0 Alias /ariadne/ C:/Program Files/Ariadne.2.0b10/www/
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Don't forget to restart Apache again after this change.
\par 
\par If you are using IIS, you can add a Virtual Directory with the same effect. In the Internet Services Manager you can select the Ariadne website, right-click on it and select 'new' -> 'Virtual Directory'. In the wizard enter a name for the ariadne virtual 
directory, e.g. "ariadne", and point it to the C:\\Program Files\\ariadne.2.0b10\\www\\ directory.
\par 
\par }{\f1\fs32\cgrid0 4. Configure Ariadne
\par }{\f1\cgrid0 
\par Next you need to configure Ariadne. There are a few configuration files, if you forget one of these, Ariadne won't run and remain strangely quiet :)
\par 
\par The first file is in the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 www}{\f1\cgrid0  (or /ariadne/) directory, called '}{\b\f1\cgrid0 ariadne.inc-dist}{\f1\cgrid0 '. Copy this file to 'ariadne.i
nc' and edit it. Change the path in the file to point to the (fully qualified) path of the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 lib}{\f1\cgrid0  directory under the Ariadne installation dir (e.g. C:/Progra~1/Ariadne.2.0b10/lib/).
\par 
\par }\pard \fi-360\li1080\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\b\f1\cgrid0 Important:}{\f1\cgrid0  Only use 'legacy' filenames for directories, the tar and gzip ut
ilities used by Ariadne don't understand spaces in filenames. Also remember to use only forward slashes ('/') in paths, as the backslash ('\\') has special meaning as an 'escape' character in PHP.
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\f1\cgrid0 
\par The next files are in the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 lib/configs/}{\f1\cgrid0  directory under the ariadne installation directory. Copy }{\b\f1\cgrid0 ariadne.phtml-dist}{\f1\cgrid0  to ariadne.phtml and edit it. Make sure you change the $AR->OS variable to }{
\b\f1\cgrid0 win32}{\f1\cgrid0 . For the rest, follow the instructions in the configuration file itself. Copy }{\b\f1\cgrid0 store.phtml-dist}{\f1\cgrid0  to store.phtml and edit it and do the same with }{\b\f1\cgrid0 sessions.phtml-dist}{\f1\cgrid0  and 
}{\b\f1\cgrid0 axstore.phtml-dist}{\f1\cgrid0 . Remember to enter the username and password and database names you entered when you installed MySQL.
\par 
\par Now got to the control panel and start }{\b\f1\cgrid0 system}{\f1\cgrid0  again. Click on }{\b\f1\cgrid0 advanced}{\f1\cgrid0  and then }{\b\f1\cgrid0 Environment Variables}{\f1\cgrid0 . Select the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 Path}{\f1\cgrid0 
 variable from the system variables box and press }{\b\f1\cgrid0 Edit}{\f1\cgrid0 . Now add the }{\b\f1\cgrid0 bin}{\f1\cgrid0  directory in the Ariadne installation directory to the path, e.g. }{\b\f1\cgrid0 C:\\Program Files\\ariadne.2.0b10\\bin}{
\f1\cgrid0  .
\par 
\par The final step is running the Ariadne initial installation script. This script populates the database with a minimal set of objects. Start your browser and go to the url }{\b\f1\cgrid0 http://localhost/ariadne/install/install.php}{\f1\cgrid0 
. The script will display a lot of messages, as long as none of them say 'ERROR', you are allright :)
\par 
\par You should now be able to login to Ariadne. Point your webbrowser to your webserver, e.g. http://your.host.com/ariadne/ and enter 'admin' as username and 'muze' as password. If you don't see a logon form but a message saying 'the object you r
equested could not be found', then the installation went wrong. Check to see if you entered the correct paths and fix them if necessary. Then drop the ariadne and ariadne_sessions databases and create them again (the fastest way to 'clear' them) and run t
he install.php script again.
\par 
\par If you successfully logged on, then before you do anything else remove the ariadne/install/ directory in the document root. This is an installation directory used for the webbased install, which can mess up your database if som
eone runs the scripts in it later. You might want to keep the files around somewhere, as there is also a script 'setadmin.php' in it, which come in handy if you ever forget the password for 'admin'. 
\par 
\par Then decide if you want to have a guest user account, if you don't, browse through the ariadne tree to }{\b\f1\cgrid0 /system/users/guest/}{\f1\cgrid0 , click on }{\b\f1\cgrid0 edit}{\f1\cgrid0 
 and change the password. The default is 'guest'. Also, remember to change the password for the admin user.
\par 
\par If you need more assistance with the installation, try the newsgroups at news://ariadne.muze.nl/.
\par 
\par Have fun,
\par Auke van Slooten
\par Muze
\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {
\par }}